---
title: We made it to 2021!
author: Joe Ahearn
date: 2021-01-07
headerImage: ../images/membership.png
---

As the Withfriends team celebrated at a safe distance, with team members now on
both coasts, we hit some milestones we really wanted to share with all of you;
the business owners and community organizers, the loyal customers and dedicated
members, and everyone who has been following us in this journey. 

**At the close of 2020, Withfriends has made $3.3m in sustainable revenue
possible at a time when support for small businesses and community
organizations throughout the United States has never been more critical.** 

<div class="text-xl sm:text-3xl leading-loose max-w-screen">
	<div class="border-b-2 mb-4 pb-2 border-wfGray-200"></div>
	<div class="border-b-2 mb-4 pb-2 border-wfGray-200 flex place-items-center">
		<div class="flex-1 font-heavy">
			Total Support for Organizations
		</div>
		<div>
			<strong><span class="text-2xl sm:text-6xl text-salmon-600">$3.3m</span></strong><br />
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="border-b-2 mb-4 pb-2 border-wfGray-200 flex place-items-center">
		<div class="flex-1 font-heavy">
			Total Members on Withfriends
		</div>
		<div>
			<strong><span class="text-2xl sm:text-6xl text-salmon-600">6,755</span></strong><br />
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="border-b-2 mb-4 pb-2 border-wfGray-200 flex place-items-center">
		<div class="flex-1 font-heavy">
			Avg. Membership Overall
		</div>
		<div>
			<strong><span class="text-2xl sm:text-6xl text-salmon-600">$12</span></strong><br />
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="border-b-2 mb-4 pb-2 border-wfgray-200 flex place-items-center">
		<div class="flex-1 font-heavy">
			Avg. Subscription Membership
		</div>
		<div>
			<strong><span class="text-2xl sm:text-6xl text-salmon-600">$30</span></strong>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

With roots in the arts and music world, Withfriends began 2020 with a decision
to focus on expanding our features to serve retail businesses throughout the
country in addition to the music venues and arts organizations we started with.
As in-person events ground to a halt in March, we began to see an outpouring of
support, and this continued throughout the year. As business models shifted
online, our Shopify and Square integrations made it possible for every customer
to support businesses they cared about, just as they did with our event
integrations. This meant bookstores, record stores, coffeeshops, musicians, and
many more essential businesses to our cultural landscape could find support at
a difficult time. You can explore the 1500 businesses working with us in 2020
here.

Most transformative, though, is the amount of money spent by each member on
Withfriends. At the close of 2020, that number is $12. The reason is that we
launched a whole new infrastructure for subscription benefits, making it easy
for any business to ship products weekly, monthly, or quarterly to their
biggest fans. Now businesses are running book clubs, curating record
collections, sharing test batches of new products. As every retail business
became an ecommerce business, we made it simple to make that transition, and
customers rewarded those that made the switch. The average amount of money
spent per member with subscription benefits was $30! Compared to a platform
like Patreon, whose average is $7, [we've discovered something that more than
triples that value](/posts/subscription-boxes-stick-figure).

Lastly, we closed out the year with 6775 active members, and another 5,200 who
supported the businesses with a donation or tip in 2020. With many businesses
closed indefinitely, and community members feeling the strain, many lower tier
members had to cancel their memberships as they themselves faced an uncertain
future. But as highlighted above, people changed their relationship with the
businesses they loved, and in many ways, became more committed, spent more
money, and received more throughout the year as higher tier members. As
occurred in so many parts of our society, the circle around each business
became tighter and more resilient as the most loyal supporters moved to the
forefront.

Weâ€™re excited about what 2021 has to offer. Our team has grown, our platform
has become significantly more powerful, and the membership programs supporting
the small businesses that inspire us continue to grow more valuable. 

## Questions? Let's get started!

If you have any questions about this article, we'd love to hear from you! Drop
us a line at team@withfriends.co, and while you're at it get started setting up
your own membership program. We'd love to hear what you think.

